doc: Add release notes for 2.8 release (#18192)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/releases/release-notes-2.8.0.rst

  * The :ref:`ble_radio_notification_conn_cb` sample demonstrating how to use the :ref:`ug_radio_notification_conn_cb` feature.
  * The :ref:`bluetooth_conn_time_synchronization` sample demonstrating microsecond-accurate synchronization of connections that are happening over Bluetooth® Low Energy Asynchronous Connection-oriented Logical transport (ACL).
  * The :ref:`ble_subrating` sample that showcases the effect of the LE Connection Subrating feature on the duty cycle of a connection.
  * The :ref:`broadcast_configuration_tool` sample that implements the :ref:`BIS gateway mode <nrf53_audio_app_overview>` and may act as an `Auracast™`_ broadcaster if you are using a preset compatible with Auracast.
  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` board in the following samples:

    * :ref:`central_bas`
    * :ref:`bluetooth_central_hr_coded`
    * :ref:`multiple_adv_sets`
    * :ref:`peripheral_bms`
    * :ref:`peripheral_cgms`
    * :ref:`peripheral_cts_client`
    * :ref:`peripheral_gatt_dm`
    * :ref:`peripheral_hr_coded`
    * :ref:`peripheral_mds`
    * :ref:`peripheral_nfc_pairing`
    * :ref:`power_profiling`
    * :ref:`peripheral_rscs`
    * :ref:`shell_bt_nus`

>     * :ref:`ble_throughput`
> 	  * :ref:`bluetooth_central_dfu_smp`
>     * :ref:`peripheral_status`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * :ref:`ble_throughput`
    * :ref:`bluetooth_central_dfu_smp`
    * :ref:`peripheral_status`
```

    Configuration directories used for other built images and sysbuild are set through sysbuild's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.

* Removed support for the nRF54L15 PDK revision v0.2.x.

Serial LTE modem
----------------

* Added:

  * DTLS support for the ``#XUDPSVR`` and ``#XSSOCKET`` (UDP server sockets) AT commands when the :file:`overlay-native_tls.conf` configuration file is used.
  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SLM_PPP_FALLBACK_MTU` Kconfig option that is used to control the MTU used by PPP when the cellular link MTU is not returned by the modem in response to the ``AT+CGCONTRDP=0`` AT command.
  * Handler for new nRF Cloud event type ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_DISCON``.
  * Support for socket option ``AT_SO_IPV6_DELAYED_ADDR_REFRESH``.

* Updated:

  * AT string parsing to utilize the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.
  * The ``#XUDPCLI`` and ``#XSSOCKET`` (UDP client sockets) AT commands to use Zephyr's Mbed TLS with DTLS when the :file:`overlay-native_tls.conf` configuration file is used.

> 

Author: Added : https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/compare/76008b67191ba20c34b28f21a13bb9af51106af0..6c9b139d2c84639ec90a3716717cbc681eb78c8a

* :ref:`bluetooth_radio_coex_1wire_sample` sample:

  * Added support for the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpurad`` and ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` build targets.

Bluetooth Fast Pair samples
---------------------------

* Updated:

  * The values for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ADV_PROV_TX_POWER_CORRECTION_VAL` Kconfig option in all configurations, and for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_FMDN_TX_POWER_CORRECTION_VAL` Kconfig option in configurations with the Find My Device Network (FMDN) extension support.
    The values are now aligned with the Fast Pair requirements.
  * The sample configurations to use a separate workqueue for connection TX notify processing (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CONN_TX_NOTIFY_WQ`).
    This is done to work around the timeout in MPSL flash synchronization (``NCSDK-29354`` known issue).
    See :ref:`known_issues` for details.

* :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag` sample:

  * Added:

    * LED indication on development kits for the Fast Pair advertising state.
    * An application versioning using the :file:`VERSION` file.
    * The DFU support which can be enabled using the ``SB_CONFIG_APP_DFU`` sysbuild Kconfig option.

>       DFU is available for all supported targets except the ``debug`` configurations of :ref:`zephyr:nrf52dk_nrf52832` and :ref:`zephyr:nrf52833dk_nrf52833` due to size constraints.

Reviewer 2: Please add:
```
* An application module for the DULT motion detector feature and the new UI for supported board targets to interact with this feature.
  The development kit board targets simulate the motion with the button presses.
  The Thingy:53 target uses an 6-axis IMU with gyroscope to detect motion.
```

Reviewer 2: This and following changes has been reviewed here: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/18138/

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_SUBSEQUENT_PAIRING` Kconfig option allowing the user to control the support for the Fast Pair subsequent pairing feature.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE` Kconfig choice option allowing the user to select their target Fast Pair use case.
      The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE_UNKNOWN`, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE_INPUT_DEVICE`, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE_LOCATOR_TAG` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE_MOUSE` Kconfig options represent the supported use cases that can be selected as part of this Kconfig choice option.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_BOND_MANAGER` Kconfig option that enables the Fast Pair bond management functionality.
      If this option is enabled, the Fast Pair subsystem tracks the Bluetooth bonds created through the Fast Pair Procedure and unpairs them if the procedure is incomplete or the Account Key associated with the bonds is removed.
      It also unpairs the Fast Pair Bluetooth bonds on Fast Pair factory reset.

>       The option is enabled by default for Fast Pair use cases that are selected using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE_INPUT_DEVICE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE_MOUSE` Kconfig options.

Reviewer 2: Please add:
```
* The DULT motion detector feature integration in the FMDN extension.
  You can enable this feature using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_FMDN_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR` Kconfig option.
```

* Fixed a potential issue with handling data pointers in the function ``ring_buf_get_data`` in the :file:`platform_internal_thread` file.

nRF RPC libraries
-----------------

* Added:

  * An experimental serialization of Openthread APIs.
  * The logging backend that sends logs through nRF RPC events.

* Updated the internal Bluetooth serialization API and Bluetooth callback proxy API to become part of the public NRF RPC API.

Other libraries
---------------

* Added the :ref:`nrf_compression` library with support for the LZMA decompression.

* :ref:`lib_date_time` library:

  * Added:

    * A retry feature that reattempts failed date-time updates up to a certain number of consecutive times.
    * The Kconfig options :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_COUNT` to control whether and how many consecutive date-time update retries may be performed, and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_INTERVAL_SECONDS` to control how quickly date-time update retries occur.

  * Fixed a bug that caused date-time updates to not be rescheduled under certain circumstances.

* :ref:`lib_ram_pwrdn` library:

  * Added support for the nRF54L15 SoC.

> 

Reviewer 2: Please add:
```
* :ref:`dult_readme` library:

  * Added DULT motion detector feature.
    You can enable this feature using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR` Kconfig option.
```

  * The :ref:`security` page with a table that provides an overview of the available general security features.
    This table replaces the subpage that was previously describing these features in more detail and was duplicating information available in other sections.
  * Restructured the :ref:`app_bootloaders` documentation and combined the DFU and bootloader articles.
    Additionally, created a new bootloader :ref:`bootloader_quick_start`.
  * Separated the instructions about building from :ref:`configure_application` and moved it to a standalone :ref:`building` page.
  * Restructured the :ref:`ug_bt_mesh` documentation for clearer distinction between concepts or overview topics and how-to topics, thus moved some information from the Bluetooth Mesh library sections.
  * The :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cracen` section with a reference to the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_cryptography` page.
  * The :ref:`ug_tfm` page with the correct list of samples demonstrating TF-M.
  * The :ref:`app_approtect_ncs` section on the :ref:`app_approtect` page with details on setting the Kconfig options and register values to enable AP-Protect.

>   * The :ref:`companion_components` page with Secure Domain Firmware and System Controller Firmware components.

Reviewer 2: Please add:
```
* The :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair` guide to document integration steps for the motion detector feature which is a part of the FMDN extension.
* The :ref:`ug_dult` guide to document integration steps for the motion detector feature.
```

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Additions specific to |NCS|
---------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Added possibility to read UICR.OTP registers through platform services.

Documentation
=============

* Added:

  * The :ref:`ug_app_dev` section, which includes pages from the :ref:`configuration_and_build` section and from the removed Device configuration guides section.
  * The :ref:`dfu_tools_mcumgr_cli` page after it was removed from the Zephyr repository.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries` page.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_push` page documenting the SUIT push model-based update process.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_recovery` page.
  * The :ref:`nrf_rpc_uart` page.
  * The :ref:`ug_bt_stack_arch` and the :ref:`ug_bt_solution` documentation to the :ref:`Bluetooth protocols <ug_bt>` page.
  * The :ref:`nfc_rpc` page documenting the NFC Remote Procedure Call (RPC) solution.
  * The :ref:`memory_storage` page under :ref:`ug_nrf54l`.

* Updated:

>   * The :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_debugging` page with the new snippets added for the nRF70 driver debug and WPA supplicant debug logs.

Reviewer 3: The first link (1) in this section and the last one (2) are referring to very specific pages within the structure, but the rendered name suggests general pages:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/70f891ef-0ff9-4fa6-9c45-215786e2aabc)

For 1), can we add `mcumgr` to _the title of the page_? Also to avoid Kapa and search potentially linking to this page whenever someone searches for "command line"?

For 2) can we add a mention of the nRF7002 DK guide?
```
  * The nRF7002 DK device guide's :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_debugging` page with the new snippets added for the nRF70 driver debug and WPA supplicant debug logs.
```

    This table replaces the subpage that was previously describing these features in more detail and was duplicating information available in other sections.
  * Restructured the :ref:`app_bootloaders` documentation and combined the DFU and bootloader articles.
    Additionally, created a new bootloader :ref:`bootloader_quick_start`.
  * Separated the instructions about building from :ref:`configure_application` and moved it to a standalone :ref:`building` page.
  * Restructured the :ref:`ug_bt_mesh` documentation for clearer distinction between concepts or overview topics and how-to topics, thus moved some information from the Bluetooth Mesh library sections.
  * The :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cracen` section with a reference to the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_cryptography` page.
  * The :ref:`ug_tfm` page with the correct list of samples demonstrating TF-M.
  * The :ref:`app_approtect_ncs` section on the :ref:`app_approtect` page with details on setting the Kconfig options and register values to enable AP-Protect.
  * The :ref:`companion_components` page with Secure Domain Firmware and System Controller Firmware components.

>   * The :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair` guide to document integration steps for the motion detector feature which is a part of the FMDN extension.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair` guide to document integration steps for the motion detector feature that is a part of the FMDN extension.
```

  * The :ref:`ug_dult` guide to document integration steps for the motion detector feature.

* Removed:

  * The Device configuration guides section and moved its contents to :ref:`ug_app_dev`.
  * The Advanced building procedures page and moved its contents to the :ref:`building` page.
  * The standalone pages for getting started with nRF52 Series and with the nRF5340 DK.

>     These pages have been replaced by the `Quick Start`_ app, which now supports the nRF52 Series devices and the nRF5340 DK.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    These pages have been replaced by the `Quick Start`_ app that now supports the nRF52 Series devices and the nRF5340 DK.
```

  * ``perm-write``
  * ``perm-execute``
  * ``perm-secure``
  * ``non-secure-callable``

  It is recommended to replace them with the new devicetree property: ``nordic,access``.
  See the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8_recommended>` for more information.

* Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

  .. note::
     This feature has never been functional.
     To configure the signing key, use any available Kconfig method.

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

* Added:

  * ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE`` sysbuild Kconfig to allow setting network core application updates for MCUboot.
  * Direct-XIP (without revert) support to :ref:`QSPI split image <qspi_xip_split_image>` for sysbuild.
  * Documentation for :ref:`mcuboot_image_compression`.
  * Documentation for :ref:`qspi_xip_split_image` functionality.
  * Documenetation for :ref:`sysbuild_assigned_images_ids`.
  * A section in the sysbuild-related migration guide about the migration of :ref:`child_parent_to_sysbuild_migration_qspi_xip` from child/parent image to sysbuild.

> * Updated the procedure for signing the application image built for booting by MCUboot in direct-XIP mode with revert support.
>   Now, the Intel-Hex file of the application image automatically receives a confirmation flag.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Updated: 

  * The procedure for signing the application image built for booting by MCUboot in direct-XIP mode with revert support.
    Now, the Intel-HEX file of the application image automatically receives a confirmation flag.
  * The allowed offset for :ref:`doc_fw_info` in the :ref:`bootloader`.
    It can now be placed at offset 0x600, however, it cannot be used for any applications with |NSIB| compiled before this change.
```

Author: @annwoj FYI - I have move the changelog entry of PR https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/16765 from the release notes to Change log to main -  https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/compare/780a0758b3774b1bfc963e86c19c0954d6c2252f..41f93f0b887ebeb166cbf4c7d24cd398642d841c, since the PR is not part of the 2.8 release now.

    The format now includes the optional ``EXTRAVERSION`` component.
  * Storing the Device Attestation Certificates private key in the Trusted Storage library to be enabled for all platforms that support the PSA crypto API.
    See :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_its` for more information.
  * The stack sizes for OpenThread and CHIP (Matter) threads to increase them for the targets using the CRACEN crypto backend.
  * The IPv6 multicast subscription mechanism for Wi-Fi to enable the MLDv2 join procedure and improve reliability in multicast communication.

Matter fork
+++++++++++

The Matter fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-connectedhomeip``) contains all commits from the upstream Matter repository up to, and including, the ``v1.3.0.0`` tag.

The following list summarizes the most important changes inherited from the upstream Matter:

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thread
------

* Added the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` and described how to use it.
* Updated the default Trusted Storage AEAD key to Hardware Unique Key (HUK) for supported nRF54L Series devices.

Wi-Fi
-----

* Added:

   * The :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_offloaded_raw_tx` page.

>    * Support for :ref:`EAP-TLS <ug_nrf70_wifi_advanced_security_modes>` enterprise security mode.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
   * Support for :ref:`WPA2-EAP-TLS <ug_nrf70_wifi_advanced_security_modes>` enterprise security mode.
```

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each nRF Connect SDK release.

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``ea02b93eea35afef32ebb31f49f8e79932e7deee``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline ea02b93eea ^23cf38934c

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^ea02b93eea

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``ea02b93eea`` of Zephyr.

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

> * Added possibility to read UICR.OTP registers through platform services.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Added possibility to read UICR.OTP registers through platform services.
* The TF-M version is updated to TF-M v2.1.0.

Mbed TLS
========

* Updated the Mbed TLS version to v3.6.2
```

Author: Updated.

  * An issue where leftover data in SUIT storage prevents writing to SUIT storage for a new application or radio image (NCSDK-28317).
  * An issue where ``smp_transfer`` west flash fails with cyclic resets afterwards (NCSDK-27732).
  * An issue where the **suit-generator** generation of installed manifest images for custom manifest class ID is not possible (NCSDK-27289).
  * An issue where manifest could declare any ``INSTLD_MFST`` component regardless of it's class ID (NCSDK-27235).

Developing with nRF91 Series
============================

* Added:

  * User guides for Thingy:91 X in the :ref:`ug_nrf91` documentation.
  * The :ref:`nRF91 modem tracing with RTT backend snippet <nrf91_modem_trace_rtt_snippet>` to enable modem tracing using the RTT trace backend.
  * The :ref:`nRF91 modem tracing with RAM backend snippet <nrf91_modem_trace_ram_snippet>` to enable modem tracing using the RAM trace backend.

Developing with nRF70 Series
============================

* The :ref:`ug_nrf70_features_hostap` section to the :ref:` ug_nrf70_features` page

Developing with nRF54L Series
=============================

* Added:

>   * :ref:`nRF54l_snippets` to emulate these targets on an nRF54L15 DK.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`vpr_flpr_nrf54l` and :ref:`building_nrf54l` pages.
  * :ref:`nRF54l_snippets` to emulate these targets on an nRF54L15 DK.
```

    See :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu` for more information.

Matter fork
+++++++++++

The Matter fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-connectedhomeip``) contains all commits from the upstream Matter repository up to, and including, the ``v1.3.0.0`` tag.

The following list summarizes the most important changes inherited from the upstream Matter:

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thread
------

* Added the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` and described how to use it.
* Updated the default Trusted Storage AEAD key to Hardware Unique Key (HUK) for supported nRF54L Series devices.

Zigbee
------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` to v3.11.5.0 and platform v5.1.6 (``v3.11.5.0+5.1.6``).
    They contain a fix for the ZBOSS traces.
    For details, see :ref:`zboss_changelog`.
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.2.4.

* Fixed the :file:`zb_add_ota_header.py` script not being able to handle an ``APPLICATION_VERSION_STRING`` which includes a tweak, such as ``1.0.0+3``.

Wi-Fi
-----

* Added:

   * The :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_offloaded_raw_tx` feature.

>    * Support for :ref:`WEAP-TLS <ug_nrf70_wifi_advanced_security_modes>` enterprise security mode.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
   * Support for :ref:`WPA2-EAP-TLS <ug_nrf70_wifi_advanced_security_modes>` enterprise security mode.
```

* :ref:`npm1300_fuel_gauge` sample:

  * Updated to accommodate API changes in nRF Fuel Gauge library v0.11.1.

Protocols serialization samples
-------------------------------

* Added the :ref:`nrf_rpc_protocols_serialization_client` and the :ref:`nrf_rpc_protocols_serialization_server` samples.

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) samples
---------------------------------

* Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` (``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns``), replacing the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` (``nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns``).

* :ref:`tfm_psa_template` sample:

  * Added support for updating the network core on the nRF5340 DK.

Thread samples
--------------

* Updated all samples to enable the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` generation.

* :ref:`ot_cli_sample` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` in the low-power snippet.
  * Added experimental support for :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>` on the nRF54L15 SoC.

Zigbee samples
--------------

* :ref:`zigbee_light_switch_sample` sample:

  * Added the option to configure transmission power.
  * Fixed the FOTA configuration for the nRF5340 DK.

Wi-Fi samples
-------------

* Added:

>   * The :ref:`wifi_offloaded_raw_tx_packet_sample` sample that demonstrates transmission of raw packets.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`wifi_offloaded_raw_tx_packet_sample` sample that demonstrates transmission of custom packets at regular intervals utilizing very low power.
```

  * An issue with signing variables not expanding strings for nRF70 Series devices.

* Deprecated the following devicetree properties:

  * ``owner-id``
  * ``perm-read``
  * ``perm-write``
  * ``perm-execute``
  * ``perm-secure``
  * ``non-secure-callable``

  It is recommended to replace them with the new devicetree property: ``nordic,access``.
  See the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8_recommended>` for more information.

* Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

  .. note::
     This feature has never been functional.
     To configure the signing key, use any available Kconfig method.

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

* Added:

  * ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE`` sysbuild Kconfig to allow setting network core application updates for MCUboot.
  * Direct-XIP (without revert) support to :ref:`QSPI split image <qspi_xip_split_image>` for sysbuild.
  * Documentation for :ref:`mcuboot_image_compression`.
  * Documentation for :ref:`qspi_xip_split_image` functionality.
  * Documenetation for :ref:`sysbuild_assigned_images_ids`.

>   * A section in the sysbuild-related migration guide about the migration of :ref:`child_parent_to_sysbuild_migration_qspi_xip` from child/parent image to sysbuild.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * A section in the sysbuild-related migration guide about the migration of :ref:`child_parent_to_sysbuild_migration_qspi_xip` from child/parent image to sysbuild.
  * :ref:`QSPI XIP split image <qspi_xip_split_image>` support for the nRF52840 SoC and MCUBoot's direct-xip mode.
```

    .. note::
       This has security implications and might allow secrets to be leaked to the non-secure application in RAM.

  * The ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE`` sysbuild Kconfig option that enables updating the network core on the nRF5340 SoC from external flash.
  * The AP-Protect sysbuild Kconfig options to enable the corresponding AP-Protect Kconfig options for all images in the build:

    * ``SB_CONFIG_APPROTECT_LOCK`` for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_APPROTECT_LOCK` Kconfig option.
    * ``SB_CONFIG_APPROTECT_USER_HANDLING`` for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_APPROTECT_USER_HANDLING` Kconfig option.
    * ``SB_CONFIG_APPROTECT_USE_UICR`` for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_APPROTECT_USE_UICR` Kconfig option.
    * ``SB_CONFIG_SECURE_APPROTECT_LOCK`` for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURE_APPROTECT_LOCK` Kconfig option.
    * ``SB_CONFIG_SECURE_APPROTECT_USER_HANDLING`` for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURE_APPROTECT_USER_HANDLING` Kconfig option.
    * ``SB_CONFIG_SECURE_APPROTECT_USE_UICR`` for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURE_APPROTECT_USE_UICR` Kconfig option.

>   * CMake warning when static partition manager file has been changed but changes will not be read until a pristine build is performed.

Reviewer 8: the original should be left because this only applies in a configured build, the "but" part is important not optional

  * Sysbuild-assigned MCUboot image IDs feature, which deals with MCUboot image IDs for different components in a project.
  * The ``SB_CONFIG_LWM2M_CARRIER_DIVIDED_DFU`` sysbuild Kconfig option that enables the generation of proprietary application update files required for the LwM2M carrier divided FOTA procedure.

* Fixed:

  * An issue with the |NCS| boot banner using ``CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR`` instead of ``APPLICATION_SOURCE_DIR``.
  * An issue with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE` having a prompt which would, in some circumstances, lead to a sticky value if the configuration was changed.
  * An issue with changes to image configurations in a ``sysbuild.cmake`` file not being applied to variant images.
  * An issue with signing variables not expanding strings for nRF70 Series devices.

* Deprecated the following devicetree properties:

  * ``owner-id``
  * ``perm-read``
  * ``perm-write``
  * ``perm-execute``
  * ``perm-secure``
  * ``non-secure-callable``

  It is recommended to replace them with the new devicetree property: ``nordic,access``.
  See the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8_recommended>` for more information.

> * Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

Reviewer 8: This is a bit of an odd thing because nothing has actually changed, the feature did not do anything and has never worked, nothing has been done. I don't remember if a documentation page was removed or not, but this reads like a feature was removed when it wasn't

> * Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

Reviewer 3: So what changed here? If nothing has changed and the feature did nothing and has never worked? Maybe we don't need this entry then?

> * Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

Author: Discussed offline with Jamie, the related doc was removed. Hence, update the release entry accordingly.

  .. note::

>      This feature has never been functional.

Reviewer 8: exactly here, how can you remove something that has never been functional?

     To configure the signing key, use any available Kconfig method.

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

* Added:

>   * ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE`` sysbuild Kconfig to allow setting network core application updates for MCUboot.

Reviewer 8: *allow supporting network core application in MCUboot

  * :ref:`QSPI XIP split image <qspi_xip_split_image>` support for the nRF52840 SoC and MCUBoot's direct-xip mode.
  * Documentation for :ref:`mcuboot_image_compression`.
  * Documentation for :ref:`sysbuild_assigned_images_ids`.
  * A section in the sysbuild-related migration guide about the migration of :ref:`child_parent_to_sysbuild_migration_qspi_xip` from child/parent image to sysbuild.

* Updated the procedure for signing the application image built for booting by MCUboot in direct-XIP mode with revert support.
  Now, the Intel-Hex file of the application image automatically receives a confirmation flag.

> * Fixed an issue with Direct-XIP (with revert) images not being marked as confirmed.

Author: Checked with Anna and we use direct-xip. Updated in the relevant places.

  * An issue where envelopes with SUIT components not needed for particular roles are not rejected as candidates (NCSDK-29237).
  * An issue where a duplicate class ID in MPI leads to cyclic SDFW resets (NCSDK-28377).
  * An issue where leftover data in SUIT storage prevents writing to SUIT storage for a new application or radio image (NCSDK-28317).
  * An issue where ``smp_transfer`` west flash fails with cyclic resets afterwards (NCSDK-27732).
  * An issue where the **suit-generator** generation of installed manifest images for custom manifest class ID is not possible (NCSDK-27289).
  * An issue where manifest could declare any ``INSTLD_MFST`` component regardless of its class ID (NCSDK-27235).

Developing with nRF91 Series
============================

* Added:

  * User guides for Thingy:91 X in the :ref:`ug_nrf91` documentation.
  * The :ref:`nRF91 modem tracing with RTT backend snippet <nrf91_modem_trace_rtt_snippet>` to enable modem tracing using the RTT trace backend.
  * The :ref:`nRF91 modem tracing with RAM backend snippet <nrf91_modem_trace_ram_snippet>` to enable modem tracing using the RAM trace backend.

Developing with nRF70 Series
============================

> * The :ref:`ug_nrf70_features_hostap` section to the :ref:`ug_nrf70_features` page.

Reviewer 9: `ug_nrf70_features` link isn't rendering

  * Fixed a bug that caused date-time updates to not be rescheduled under certain circumstances.

* :ref:`lib_ram_pwrdn` library:

  * Added support for the nRF54L15 SoC.

* :ref:`dult_readme` library:

  * Added DULT motion detector feature.
    You can enable this feature using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR` Kconfig option.

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security_readme` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_SP800_108_COUNTER_CMAC` Kconfig option to key derivation function configurations in :ref:`nrf_security_driver_config`.
    The Kconfig option enables support for the derivation function SP 800-108r1 CMAC in counter mode, which is supported by the nrf_cracen driver.

* :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library:

  * Added support for Zephyr Memory Storage (ZMS), as an alternative to the NVS file system.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

> * Added semantic version support to :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script` Python script for devices that use the SUIT DFU.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script`

  * Added semantic version support for devices that use the SUIT DFU.
```
Link to SUIT docs?

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added:

  * :ref:`Compressed firmware update support <mcuboot_image_compression>`.
  * Support for SHA-512.
  * Support for ED25519 'PURE' signature.
    See the :kconfig:option:CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_PURE Kconfig option in MCUboot for details.
  * Integration of PSA crypto API as cryptographic backend for integration with cryptographic acceleration on the nRF54L15 SoC.
    See the :kconfig:option:CONFIG_BOOT_USE_PSA_CRYPTO Kconfig option in MCUboot for details.
  * Support for signature verification using hardware cryptography (Cracken) on the nRF54L15 SoC.
    This is supported either for the ED25519 'PURE' signature or the ED25519 signature.
  * Support for storing signature verification keys in hardware KMU on the nRF54L15 SoC.

>     See Kconfig option :kconfig:option:CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_USING_KMU in MCUboot for details.

Reviewer 8: Kconfigs are missing \`

  * ``perm-write``
  * ``perm-execute``
  * ``perm-secure``
  * ``non-secure-callable``

  It is recommended to replace them with the new devicetree property: ``nordic,access``.
  See the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8_recommended>` for more information.

* Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

  .. note::
     This feature has never been functional.
     To configure the signing key, use any available Kconfig method.

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

* Added:

  * ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE`` sysbuild Kconfig to allow setting network core application updates for MCUboot.
  * Direct-XIP (without revert) support to :ref:`QSPI split image <qspi_xip_split_image>` for sysbuild.
  * Documentation for :ref:`mcuboot_image_compression`.
  * Documentation for :ref:`qspi_xip_split_image` functionality.
  * Documenetation for :ref:`sysbuild_assigned_images_ids`.
  * A section in the sysbuild-related migration guide about the migration of :ref:`child_parent_to_sysbuild_migration_qspi_xip` from child/parent image to sysbuild.

>   * :ref:`QSPI XIP split image <qspi_xip_split_image>` support for the nRF52840 SoC and MCUBoot's direct-xip mode.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`QSPI XIP split image <qspi_xip_split_image>` support for the nRF52840 SoC and MCUboot's direct-xip mode.
```

  * A page on :ref:`memory_storage` system.
  * The :ref:`vpr_flpr_nrf54l` and :ref:`building_nrf54l` pages.

* Updated the name and the structure of the section, with :ref:`ug_nrf54l` as the landing page.
* Removed the Getting started with the nRF54L15 PDK page, and instead included the information about the `Quick Start`_ app support.

Security
========

* Added:

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CRACEN_IKG_SEED_KMU_SLOT` Kconfig option to allow customization of the KMU slot used to store CRACEN's Internal Key Generator (IKG) seed.
    The default IKG seed slot is now 183 (previously 0).
  * TF-M support to the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` (board target ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns``), replacing the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` (board target ``nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns``).

* Deprecated legacy Mbed TLS crypto toolbox APIs that are enabled when the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NORDIC_SECURITY_BACKEND` Kconfig option is set.
  Use the nRF Security (enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY` Kconfig option) and PSA crypto APIs instead.

> 

Reviewer 11: * Added `west ncs-provision` command which allows to provision signature verification keys to the nRF54l SoS over J-Link interface. See

    The Zephyr Bluetooth LE Controller uses a devicetree node named ``bt_hci_controller`` with a devicetree binding compatible with ``zephyr,bt-hci-ll-sw-split``.
    You need to update applications using the Zephyr Bluetooth Controller (see the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>`).
  * Host calls in GATT Discovery Manager (DM) callbacks are now scheduled in a workqueue.
    The :kconfig:option:`BT_GATT_DM_WORKQ_CHOICE` Kconfig option allows you to select the workqueue implementation.
    You can select either a workqueue specific to GATT DM (default) or the system workqueue.
    You can use the system workqueue if creating a new thread is not viable due to memory constraints, but it is not recommended to have potential blocking calls in the system workqueue.

* Fixed an issue where the Bluetooth subsystem deadlocked when a Bluetooth link was lost during data transfer.
  In this scenario, the disconnected event was never delivered to the application.
  The issue only occurred when the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HCI_ACL_FLOW_CONTROL` Kconfig option was enabled.
  This option is enabled by default on the nRF5340 DK.

Bluetooth Mesh
--------------

> * Added metadata as optional parameter for models Light Lightness Server, Light HSL Server, Light CTL Temperature Server, Sensor Server, and Time Server.

Author: Couldn't find links for the models. Is it to the lib docs? Could you provide the links to add here?

Zigbee
------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` to v3.11.5.0 and platform v5.1.6 (``v3.11.5.0+5.1.6``).
    They contain a fix for the ZBOSS traces.
    For details, see :ref:`zboss_changelog`.
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.2.4.

* Fixed the :file:`zb_add_ota_header.py` script not being able to handle an ``APPLICATION_VERSION_STRING`` which includes a tweak, such as ``1.0.0+3``.

Wi-Fi
-----

* Added:

   * The :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_offloaded_raw_tx` feature.
   * Support for :ref:`WPA2-EAP-TLS <ug_nrf70_wifi_advanced_security_modes>` enterprise security mode.
   * Support for :ref:`Platform Security Architecture (PSA) crypto APIs <ug_nrf70_developing_wifi_psa_support>` for WPA2™ security profiles.

* Updated:

   * The WPA supplicant is now switched to Zephyr upstream's fork instead of |NCS|.
   * The WPA supplicant now uses ``kernel heap`` instead of ``application (libc) heap``.

Applications
============

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`application <applications>`.

Machine learning
----------------

* Added:

>   * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` (``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns``).

Reviewer 12: Just to double check: @grochu, do you support NS variant already?

Reviewer 13: Correct, the NS variant is not supported, should be:
```suggestion
  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` (``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``).
```
Thanks for catching it!

  * Support for sampling ADXL362 sensor from PPR core on the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20`.

Asset Tracker v2
----------------

* Added a note that the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2` application is in the maintenance mode and recommended to use the :ref:`nrf_cloud_multi_service` sample instead.

Connectivity Bridge
-------------------

* Updated the new nrfx UARTE driver implementation by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_NRFX_UARTE_LEGACY_SHIM` Kconfig option to ``n``.
  This resolves an issue where data from UART0 ends up in UART1 sometimes after the device was reset.

> Matter Bridge

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
Matter bridge
```

-------------

* Added:

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_ZAP_FILES_PATH` Kconfig option that specifies ZAP files location for the application.
    By default, the option points to the :file:`src/default_zap` directory and can be changed to any path relative to application's location that contains the ZAP file and :file:`zap-generated` directory.
  * Experimental support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` board.
  * Optional smart plug device functionality.
  * Experimental support for the Thread protocol.
  * The :ref:`multiprotocol_bt_thread` page.

nRF5340 Audio
-------------

* Added:

  * The functions ``bt_hci_err_to_str`` and ``bt_security_err_to_str`` that are used to allow printing error codes as strings.
    Each function returns string representations of the error codes when the corresponding Kconfig option, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HCI_ERR_TO_STR` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_SECURITY_ERR_TO_STR`, is enabled.

>   * CSIS to the BIS sink if the scan delegator feature, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_AUDIO_SCAN_DELEGATOR`, is enabled.

Author: yeah, its app-specific and not defined in the Application doc. Will create a follow-up Jira for this as not in scope of this PR.

  * Bootup logs with the manifest semantic version information to :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr` when the module is used for SUIT DFU and the SDFW supports semantic versioning (requires v0.6.2 and higher).
  * Manifest semantic version information to the firmware information response in :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` when the module is used for SUIT DFU and the SDFW supports semantic versioning (requires v0.6.2 and higher).
  * A missing DTS node compatible with ``zephyr,hid-device`` to the nRF52840 DK in the MCUboot QSPI configuration.
    This ensures support for HID over USB when the USB next stack is selected.
  * The USB next stack (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT <config_desktop_app_options>`) implies partial erase feature of the nRF SoC flash driver (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_PARTIAL_ERASE`).
    This is done to improve stability of the USB next stack.
    The partial erase feature works around device errors that might be reported by Windows USB host in Device Manager if USB cable is connected while erasing secondary image slot in the background.

>   * Bluetooth connectivity support (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT <config_desktop_app_options>`) implies using a separate workqueue for connection TX notify processing (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CONN_TX_NOTIFY_WQ`) if MPSL is used for synchronization between the flash memory driver and radio (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_RADIO_SYNC_MPSL`).

Author: rephrased a bit. Please check.

    This is done to work around the timeout in MPSL flash synchronization (NCSDK-29354 known issue).
    See :ref:`known_issues` for details.
  * The DVFS module to the nRF Desktop application.
    You can use the module on the nRF54H20 DK with the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target.
    The module is responsible for switching the frequency and voltage according to the application's needs.
    The module ensures that lowest DVFS frequency and voltage is used unless a compute-intensive operation requests higher frequency and voltage.

>     It listens to Event Manager events and applies DVFS frequency according to the application state.

Reviewer 12: @zycz, I guess we need this note only once? (it seems duplicated a few lines below)

Reviewer 14: That's correct we should remove the first one.

* :ref:`power_profiling` sample:

  * Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_POWER_PROFILING_LED_DISABLED` Kconfig option to disable the LEDs.

* :ref:`ble_llpm` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` board.

* :ref:`bluetooth_radio_coex_1wire_sample` sample:

  * Added support for the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpurad`` and ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` build targets.

Bluetooth Fast Pair samples
---------------------------

* Added support to the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` (board target ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``), replacing the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` (board target ``nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``).

* Updated:

  * The values for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ADV_PROV_TX_POWER_CORRECTION_VAL` Kconfig option in all configurations, and for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_FMDN_TX_POWER_CORRECTION_VAL` Kconfig option in configurations with the Find My Device Network (FMDN) extension support.
    The values are now aligned with the Fast Pair requirements.
  * The sample configurations to use a separate workqueue for connection TX notify processing (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CONN_TX_NOTIFY_WQ`).

>     This is done to work around the timeout in MPSL flash synchronization (``NCSDK-29354`` known issue).

Author: Discussed offline and keeping it as is.

    * A bug causing the GNSS obstructed visibility detection to be sometimes performed twice.

  * Removed the unused :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.

* :ref:`lib_zzhc`:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.

* :ref:`modem_info_readme` library:

  * Updated:

    * To use the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.
    * The formulas of RSRP and RSRQ values in :c:macro:`RSRP_IDX_TO_DBM` and :c:macro:`RSRQ_IDX_TO_DB` based on AT command reference guide updates.
      The formulas are now aligned with the modem implementation that has not changed
      but the AT command reference guide has not been up to date with the modem implementation.

  * Removed ``RSRP_OFFSET_VAL``, ``RSRQ_OFFSET_VAL`` and ``RSRQ_SCALE_VAL`` from the API.
    Clients should have used the :c:macro:`RSRP_IDX_TO_DBM` and the :c:macro:`RSRQ_IDX_TO_DB` macros.

* :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_lte_net_if` library:

  * Added a log warning suggesting a SIM card to be installed if a UICC error is detected by the modem.

>   * Fixed a bug causing the cell network to be treated as offline if IPv4 is not assigned.

Author: Is there any specific reason to do this? The issue belongs to this lib.

    * Renamed the nRF91 socket offload layer from ``nrf91_sockets`` to ``nrf9x_sockets`` to reflect that the offload layer is not exclusive to the nRF91 Series SiPs.
    * The :ref:`modem_trace_module` to let the trace thread sleep when the modem trace level is set to :c:enumerator:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_LEVEL_OFF` using the :c:func:`nrf_modem_lib_trace_level_set` function, and the trace backend returns ``-ENOSPC``.
      The trace thread wakes up when another trace level is set.
    * The RTT trace backend to return ``-ENOSPC`` when the RTT buffer is full.
      This allows the trace thread to sleep to save power.
    * The nRF91 socket offload layer is renamed from ``nrf91_sockets`` to ``nrf9x_sockets`` to reflect that the offload layer is not exclusive to the nRF91 Series SiPs.

  * Removed:

    * Support for deprecated RAI socket options ``SO_RAI_LAST``, ``SO_RAI_NO_DATA``, ``SO_RAI_ONE_RESP``, ``SO_RAI_ONGOING``, and ``SO_RAI_WAIT_MORE``.
    * The mutex in the :c:func:`nrf9x_socket_offload_getaddrinfo` function after updating the :c:func:`nrf_getaddrinfo` function to handle concurrent requests.

> * :ref:`modem_info_readme` library:

Reviewer 10: Two entries for this library.

  * Fixed a potential issue with scanf in the :c:func:`modem_info_get_current_band` function, which could lead to memory corruption.

* :ref:`modem_key_mgmt` library:

  * Added the :c:func:`modem_key_mgmt_clear` function to delete all credentials associated with a security tag.

* :ref:`pdn_readme` library:

  * Added the event ``PDN_EVENT_CTX_DESTROYED`` to indicate when a PDP context is destroyed.
    This happens when the modem is switched to minimum functionality mode (``CFUN=0``).

* :ref:`sms_readme` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SMS_STATUS_REPORT` Kconfig option to configure whether the SMS status report is requested.

  * Updated:

    * To use the ``AT+CMMS`` AT command when sending concatenated SMS message.

>     * To set ``7`` as a fallback SMS service center address for type approval SIM cards which do not have it set.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    * To set ``7`` as a fallback SMS service center address for type approval SIM cards that do not have it set.
```

* :ref:`lib_at_shell` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AT_SHELL_UNESCAPE_LF` Kconfig option to enable reception of multiline AT commands.
  * Updated the :c:func:`at_shell` function to replace ``\n`` with ``<CR><LF>`` if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AT_SHELL_UNESCAPE_LF` is enabled.

> * :ref:`modem_key_mgmt` library:

Reviewer 10: Two entries for this library.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library:

  * Added:

    * The function :c:func:`nrf_cloud_client_id_runtime_set` to set the device ID string if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_RUNTIME` Kconfig option is enabled.
    * The functions :c:func:`nrf_cloud_sec_tag_set` and :c:func:`nrf_cloud_sec_tag_get` to set and get the sec tag used for nRF Cloud credentials.
    * A new nRF Cloud event type ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_DISCON``, which is generated when a device is deleted from nRF Cloud.
    * The functions :c:func:`nrf_cloud_print_details` and :c:func:`nrf_cloud_print_cloud_details` to log common nRF Cloud connection information in a uniform way.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PRINT_DETAILS` Kconfig option to enable the above functions.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_VERBOSE_DETAILS` Kconfig option to print all details instead of only the device ID.
    * Experimental support for shadow transform requests over MQTT using the :c:func:`nrf_cloud_shadow_transform_request` function.
      This functionality is enabled by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_MQTT_SHADOW_TRANSFORMS` Kconfig option.

>     * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COMBINED_CA_CERT_SIZE_THRESHOLD` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_CA_CERT_SIZE_THRESHOLD` Kconfig options to compare with the current root CA certificate size.

Reviewer 10: The Kconfig option CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COMBINED_CA_CERT_SIZE_THRESHOLD is not linking.

Author: Is NRF_CLOUD_COAP_CA_CERT_SIZE_THRESHOLD the correct one? @peknis - Could you please confirm this?

Reviewer 4: At least CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_CA_CERT_SIZE_THRESHOLD is found in the Kconfig reference, but the ...COMBINED_... is not. Checking this with @plskeggs .

Reviewer 15: @peknis looks like during code review I failed to correct the release notes in my PR that introduced this addition. It should be this:
```suggestion
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_AWS_CA_CERT_SIZE_THRESHOLD` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_CA_CERT_SIZE_THRESHOLD` Kconfig options to compare with the current root CA certificate size.
```

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_JWT_SEC_TAG` Kconfig option to allow for a separate sec tag to be used for nRF Cloud CoAP JWT signing.

  * Updated:

    * To use a shorter resource string for the ``d2c/bulk`` resource.
    * The function :c:func:`nrf_cloud_coap_shadow_get` to return ``-E2BIG`` if the received shadow data was truncated because the provided buffer was not big enough.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_DOWNLOADS` Kconfig option to be enabled by default if either the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_FOTA_POLL` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS` Kconfig option is enabled.

  * Fixed:

    * A hard fault that occurred when encoding AGNSS request data and the ``net_info`` field of the :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_rest_agnss_request` structure is NULL.
    * An issue where certain CoAP functions could return zero, indicating success, even though there was an error.

  * Removed the experimental status (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_EXPERIMENTAL`) from the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_DOWNLOADS` Kconfig option.

> * :ref:`lib_lwm2m_client_utils` library:

Reviewer 10: Two entries for this library.

  * Fixed an issue where a failed delta update for the modem would not clear the state and blocks future delta updates.
    This only occurred when an LwM2M Firmware object was used in push mode.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_log` library:

  * Added:

    * Support for dictionary logs using REST.
    * Support for dictionary (binary) logs when connected to nRF Cloud using CoAP.

  * Updated to use INF log level when the cloud side changes the log level.

  * Fixed the missing log source when passing a direct log call to the nRF Cloud logging backend.
    This caused the log parser to incorrectly use the first declared log source with direct logs when using dictionary mode.

* :ref:`lib_fota_download` library:

  * Fixed an issue where the download client instance did not use native TLS although the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FOTA_DOWNLOAD_NATIVE_TLS` Kconfig option was enabled.

> * :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_fota` library:

Reviewer 10: This is a section that is part of the nRF Cloud library documentation and could be moved under the relevant section.

      The range of the option is now from 128 to 1900 bytes, and the default value is 1700 bytes.
    * The function :c:func:`nrf_cloud_fota_poll_process` to be used asynchronously if a callback to handle errors is provided.

* :ref:`lib_mqtt_helper` library:

  * Added the function :c:func:`mqtt_helper_msg_id_get` to get valid message IDs for MQTT messages.
  * Updated the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MQTT_HELPER_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option to depend on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TLS_CREDENTIALS` instead of specific boards.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_provisioning` library:

  * Added support for the ``SO_KEEPOPEN`` socket option to keep the socket open even during PDN disconnect and reconnect.
  * Updated the check interval logging to use INF to improve customer experience.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_alert` library:

  * Updated to use INF log level when cloud side changes the alert enable flag.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Added an experimental serialization of NFC tag 2 and tag 4 APIs.

> * Fixed a potential issue with handling data pointers in the function ``ring_buf_get_data`` in the :file:`platform_internal_thread` file.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Fixed a potential issue with handling data pointers in the function ``ring_buf_get_data()`` in the :file:`platform_internal_thread` file.
```

nRF RPC libraries
-----------------

* Added:

  * An experimental serialization of Openthread APIs.
  * The logging backend that sends logs through nRF RPC events.

* Updated the internal Bluetooth serialization API and Bluetooth callback proxy API to become part of the public NRF RPC API.

Other libraries
---------------

* Added the :ref:`nrf_compression` library with support for the LZMA decompression.

* :ref:`lib_date_time` library:

  * Added:

    * A retry feature that reattempts failed date-time updates up to a certain number of consecutive times.
    * The Kconfig options :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_COUNT` to control whether and how many consecutive date-time update retries may be performed, and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_INTERVAL_SECONDS` to control how quickly date-time update retries occur.

  * Fixed a bug that caused date-time updates to not be rescheduled under certain circumstances.

* :ref:`lib_ram_pwrdn` library:

  * Added support for the nRF54L15 SoC.

* :ref:`dult_readme` library:

>   * Added DULT motion detector feature integration.

Reviewer 16: as in the original comment from @alstrzebonski that is marked as resolved:

```suggestion
  * Added DULT motion detector feature.
```

    The Kconfig option enables support for the derivation function SP 800-108r1 CMAC in counter mode, which is supported by the nrf_cracen driver.

* :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library:

  * Added support for Zephyr Memory Storage (ZMS), as an alternative to the NVS file system.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* Added semantic version support to :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script` Python script for devices that use the SUIT DFU.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``a4eda30f5b0cfd0cf15512be9dcd559239dbfc91``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added :ref:`Compressed firmware update support <mcuboot_image_compression>`.

> 

Author: Added, please check - https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/compare/4a21de87b1404ff4c353859fbae6df4d6e46424f..960c272da5134c5a1ced5460acf872857bb37ad5

  * An multiple issues with checking firmware update slot selection in MCUboot for sysbuild.
  * An issue with MCUboot cleanup unused slots feature, which could lead to possible empty firmware update of the main image and bricking the device for sysbuild.

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each nRF Connect SDK release.

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``ea02b93eea35afef32ebb31f49f8e79932e7deee``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline ea02b93eea ^23cf38934c

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^ea02b93eea

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``ea02b93eea`` of Zephyr.

.. note::

>    For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Reviewer 10: Any additions specific to NCS?

Reviewer 17: @rlubos would you mind checking this section as part of the release work?

Reviewer 18: The SHAs look like a copy-paste from the previous release, I've left comments inline with correct ones.

    * The ``fp_adv`` module to use the trigger requests for the Fast Pair advertising state instead of setting the Fast Pair advertising mode directly.

Bluetooth Mesh samples
----------------------

* For all Bluetooth Mesh samples:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` board.
  * Added support for Zephyr Memory Storage (ZMS) when compiling for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` board.
  * Removed support for the nRF54L15 PDK.

* :ref:`bluetooth_ble_peripheral_lbs_coex` sample:

  * Updated the usage of the :c:macro:`BT_LE_ADV_CONN` macro.
    See the Bluetooth Host section in Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:migration_3.7`.

Cellular samples
----------------

* Added the :ref:`uicc_lwm2m_sample` sample.

* :ref:`fmfu_smp_svr_sample` sample:

  * Removed the unused :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.

* :ref:`modem_shell_application` sample:

  * Added ``link modem`` command for initializing and shutting down the modem.
  * Updated to use the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_rest_fota` sample:

>   * Added support for setting the FOTA update check interval using the config section in the shadow.

Reviewer 19: ```suggestion
  * Added:

    * Support for setting the FOTA update check interval using the config section in the shadow.
    * Support for SMP FOTA on the nRF9160 DK.

```

from https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/18145

Author: Added to https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/18192/files#diff-edb5a676e90130a0ac595e21ff13ec34ea32ae0c53dad433bc0d0eab4d10030b file.

  * An issue with changes to image configurations in a ``sysbuild.cmake`` file not being applied to variant images.
  * An issue with nRF7x signing variables not expanding strings.

* Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

  .. note::
     This feature has never been functional.
     To configure the signing key, use any available Kconfig method.

* Deprecated the following devicetree properties:

  * ``owner-id``
  * ``perm-read``
  * ``perm-write``
  * ``perm-execute``
  * ``perm-secure``
  * ``non-secure-callable``

  It is recommended to replace them with the new devicetree property: ``nordic,access``.
  See the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8_recommended>` for more information.

* Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

  .. note::
     This feature has never been functional.

>      To configure the signing key, use any available Kconfig method.

Reviewer 8: duplicated

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

* Added:

  * Documentation for :ref:`mcuboot_image_compression`.
  * Documentation for :ref:`qspi_xip_split_image` functionality.
  * A section in the sysbuild-related migration guide about the migration of :ref:`child_parent_to_sysbuild_migration_qspi_xip` from child/parent image to sysbuild.
  * ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE`` sysbuild Kconfig to allow setting network core application updates for MCUboot.
  * Direct-XIP (without revert) support added to QSPI split image for sysbuild.

* Updated the procedure for signing the application image built for booting by MCUboot in direct-XIP mode with revert support.
  Now, the Intel-Hex file of the application image automatically receives a confirmation flag.

* Fixed:

>   * An issue with bl_validation not using logging for message output.

Reviewer 8: seems this is duplicated below with different words, this line can go

  * The ZMS file subsystem to all devices that contain RRAM, such as the nRF54L Series devices.
  * Migration of the Device Attestation Certificates private key to Key Management Unit (KMU) for the nRF54L Series SoCs.
    See :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu` to learn how to enable it in your sample.
  * Support for the Device Firmware Upgrade over Bluetooth LE SMP and Matter Over-the-air Software Update (OTA) on nRF54H20 SoC.

* Updated:

  * The default Trusted Storage AEAD key to Hardware Unique Key (HUK) for supported nRF54L Series devices.
  * Renamed the ``CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_RESET_ERASE_NVS`` Kconfig option to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_RESET_ERASE_SETTINGS`.
    The new Kconfig option now works for both NVS and ZMS file system backends.
  * The firmware version format used for informational purposes when using the :file:`VERSION` file.
    The format now includes the optional ``EXTRAVERSION`` component.
  * Storing the Device Attestation Certificates private key in the Trusted Storage library to be enabled for all platforms that support the PSA crypto API.
    See :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_its` for more information.

>   * The stack sizes are increased for OpenThread and CHIP (Matter) threads for the targets using CrAcEn crypto backend.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
  * The stack sizes for OpenThread and CHIP (Matter) threads to increase them for the targets using the CRACEN crypto backend.
```

>   * The IPv6 multicast subscription mechanism for Wi-Fi to enable MLDv2 join procedure and improve reliability in multicast communication.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
  * The IPv6 multicast subscription mechanism for Wi-Fi to enable the MLDv2 join procedure and improve reliability in multicast communication.
```

DECT NR+ samples
----------------

* Added the :ref:`dect_shell_application` sample.

Edge Impulse samples
--------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Enhanced ShockBurst samples
---------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell samples
--------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Keys samples
------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter samples
--------------

* Added:

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_ZAP_FILES_PATH` Kconfig option, which specifies ZAP files location for the sample.
    By default, the option points to the :file:`src/default_zap` directory and can be changed to any path relative to sample's location that contains the ZAP file and :file:`zap-generated` directory.
  * Support for the nRF54L15 DK.
  * Support for :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>` on the nRF54L15 SoC.
  * The :ref:`matter_smoke_co_alarm_sample` sample that demonstrates implementation of Matter Smoke CO alarm device type.
  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_LEDS` Kconfig option, which can be used to disable the LEDs in the Matter sample or application.

* Updated:

  * All samples to enable the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` generation.

>   * Enabled Matter OTA on nRF54H20 DK.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
  * Enabled Matter OTA on the nRF54H20 DK.
```

* :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample:

  * Added :ref:`Matter Lock schedule snippet <matter_lock_snippets>` and updated the documentation to use the snippet.

>   * Enabled low power configuration for the nRF54L15 DK target.
>   * Enabled Link-Time Optimization (LTO) for the nRF7002 DK target.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
  * Updated:

    * The low power configuration to be enabled for the nRF54L15 DK target.
    * The Link-Time Optimization (LTO) to be enabled for the nRF7002 DK target.
```

* :ref:`matter_smoke_co_alarm_sample` sample:

>   * Enabled low power configuration for the nRF54L15 DK target.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
  * The low power configuration to be enabled for the nRF54L15 DK target.
```

* :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample:

  * Updated the DAC private key migration from factory data to KMU to be enabled for the nRF54L Series SoCs by default.

* :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample:

>   * Enabled low power configuration for the nRF54L15 DK target.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
  * Updated the low power configuration to be enabled for the nRF54L15 DK target.
```

> * Removed support for the nRF54L15 PDK from all samples.

Reviewer 20: Should be moved before Line 720 since it applies to all Matter samples.

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``ea02b93eea`` of Zephyr.

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Additions specific to |NCS|
---------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

zcbor
=====

|no_changes_yet_note|

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Added possibility to read UICR.OTP registers through platform services.

cJSON
=====

|no_changes_yet_note|

Documentation
=============

* Added:

  * The :ref:`ug_app_dev` section, which includes pages from the :ref:`configuration_and_build` section and from the removed Device configuration guides section.
  * The :ref:`dfu_tools_mcumgr_cli` page after it was removed from the Zephyr repository.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries` page.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_push` page documenting the SUIT push model-based update process.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_recovery` page.
  * The :ref:`nrf_rpc_uart` page.
  * The :ref:`ug_bt_stack_arch` and the :ref:`ug_bt_solution` documentation to the :ref:`Bluetooth protocols <ug_bt>` page.

>   * The :ref:`nfc_rpc` page documenting the NFC Remote Procedure Call (RPC) solution.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`nfc_rpc` page documenting the NFC Remote Procedure Call (RPC) solution.
  * The :ref:`memory_storage` page under :ref:`ug_nrf54l`.
```

    This is done to improve stability of the USB next stack.
    The partial erase feature works around device errors that might be reported by Windows USB host in Device Manager if USB cable is connected while erasing secondary image slot in the background.
  * A imply in the Bluetooth connectivity support (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT <config_desktop_app_options>`), which now uses a separate workqueue for connection TX notify processing (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CONN_TX_NOTIFY_WQ`) if MPSL is used for synchronization between the flash memory driver and radio (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_RADIO_SYNC_MPSL`).
    This is done to work around the timeout in MPSL flash synchronization (``NCSDK-29354`` known issue).
    See :ref:`known_issues` for details.
  * Note informing about :file:`dfu_application.zip` format version ``1`` support as part of :ref:`nrf_desktop_fwupd`.
    The format version ``1`` is supported by the fwupd since the 1.9.25 release.
  * :ref:`nrf_desktop_dvfs` that can be used on the nRF54H20 SoC.
    The module is responsible for switching the frequency and voltage according to the application's needs.

>     The module ensures that lowest DVFS frequency and voltage is used unless computation-challenging operation requests higher frequency and voltage.

Reviewer 21: ```suggestion
    The module ensures that lowest DVFS frequency and voltage are used unless computation-challenging operation requests higher frequency and voltage.
```

Reviewer 4: Suggesting computing-intensive instead of computation-challenging.

    The module listens to Event Manager events and applies DVFS frequency according to the application state.
  * Handling of :c:struct:`hid_report_subscriber_event` to :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward`.

>     Handling the :c:struct:`hid_report_subscriber_event` allows to take into account the maximum number of reports with different ID, which can be processed by the subscriber (:c:member:`hid_report_subscriber_event.report_max`).

Reviewer 21: ```suggestion
    Handling the :c:struct:`hid_report_subscriber_event` allows to take into account the maximum number of reports with different IDs, which can be processed by the subscriber (:c:member:`hid_report_subscriber_event.report_max`).
```

  * The :ref:`matter_smoke_co_alarm_sample` sample that demonstrates implementation of Matter Smoke CO alarm device type.
  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_LEDS` Kconfig option, which can be used to disable the LEDs in the Matter sample or application.

* Updated:

  * All samples to enable the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` generation.
  * Enabled Matter OTA on the nRF54H20 DK.

* :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample:

  * Added :ref:`Matter Lock schedule snippet <matter_lock_snippets>` and updated the documentation to use the snippet.

  * Updated:

    * The low power configuration to be enabled for the nRF54L15 DK target.
    * The Link-Time Optimization (LTO) to be enabled for the nRF7002 DK target.

* :ref:`matter_smoke_co_alarm_sample` sample:

  * Updated the low power configuration to be enabled for the nRF54L15 DK target.

* :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample:

  * Updated the DAC private key migration from factory data to KMU to be enabled for the nRF54L Series SoCs by default.

* :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample:

  * Updated the low power configuration to be enabled for the nRF54L15 DK target.

Networking samples
------------------

> * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` board with an with nRF7002 EB device for the following samples:

Reviewer 21: ```suggestion
* Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` board with an nRF7002 EB device for the following samples:
```

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_LC_EDRX_MODULE` Kconfig option to enable the eDRX module.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_LC_NEIGHBOR_CELL_MEAS_MODULE` Kconfig option to enable the Neighboring Cell Measurements module.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_LC_PERIODIC_SEARCH_MODULE` Kconfig option to enable the Periodic Search Configuration module.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_LC_PSM_MODULE` Kconfig option to enable the PSM module.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_LC_RAI_MODULE` Kconfig option to enable the RAI module.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_LC_MODEM_SLEEP_MODULE` Kconfig option to enable the Modem Sleep Notifications module.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_LC_TAU_PRE_WARNING_MODULE` Kconfig option to enable the TAU Pre-warning module.
    * The :c:enumerator:`LTE_LC_EVT_RAI_UPDATE` event that is enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_RAI_REQ` Kconfig option.
      This requires the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_LC_RAI_MODULE` Kconfig option to be enabled.

  * Updated:

    * To use the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.

>     * The :c:func:`lte_lc_neighbor_cell_measurement` function to return an error for invalid GCI count.

Reviewer 21: ```suggestion
    * The :c:func:`lte_lc_neighbor_cell_measurement` function to return an error for an invalid GCI count.
```

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``ea02b93eea35afef32ebb31f49f8e79932e7deee``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline ea02b93eea ^23cf38934c

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^ea02b93eea

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``ea02b93eea`` of Zephyr.

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Added a possibility to read UICR.OTP registers through platform services.
* Updated the TF-M version to v2.1.0.

Mbed TLS
========

* Updated the Mbed TLS version to v3.6.2.

Documentation
=============

* Added:

> 

Reviewer 22: ```suggestion
* The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_smp.rst` page.
```

  * The :ref:`ug_app_dev` section, which includes pages from the :ref:`configuration_and_build` section and from the removed Device configuration guides section.
  * The :ref:`dfu_tools_mcumgr_cli` page after it was removed from the Zephyr repository.

>   * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries` page.

Reviewer 22: ```suggestion
 * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_flpr` page.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries` page.
```

  * Bootup logs with the manifest semantic version information to :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr` when the module is used for SUIT DFU and the SDFW supports semantic versioning (requires v0.6.2 and higher).
  * Manifest semantic version information to the firmware information response in :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` when the module is used for SUIT DFU and the SDFW supports semantic versioning (requires v0.6.2 and higher).
  * A missing DTS node compatible with ``zephyr,hid-device`` to the nRF52840 DK in the MCUboot QSPI configuration.
    This ensures support for HID over USB when the USB next stack is selected.
  * Partial erase feature as implied in the USB next stack (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT <config_desktop_app_options>`) for the nRF SoC flash driver (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_PARTIAL_ERASE`).
    This is done to improve stability of the USB next stack.
    The partial erase feature works around device errors that might be reported by Windows USB host in Device Manager if USB cable is connected while erasing secondary image slot in the background.

>   * As implied in the Bluetooth connectivity support (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT <config_desktop_app_options>`), which now uses a separate workqueue for connection TX notify processing (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CONN_TX_NOTIFY_WQ`) if MPSL is used for synchronization between the flash memory driver and radio (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_RADIO_SYNC_MPSL`).

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
  * As implied in the Bluetooth connectivity support (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT <config_desktop_app_options>`), a separate workqueue is used for connection TX notify processing (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CONN_TX_NOTIFY_WQ`) if MPSL is used for synchronization between the flash memory driver and radio (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_RADIO_SYNC_MPSL`).
```

  * An issue where manifest could declare any ``INSTLD_MFST`` component regardless of its class ID (NCSDK-27235).

Developing with nRF91 Series
============================

* Added:

  * User guides for Thingy:91 X in the :ref:`ug_nrf91` documentation.
  * The :ref:`nRF91 modem tracing with RTT backend snippet <nrf91_modem_trace_rtt_snippet>` to enable modem tracing using the RTT trace backend.
  * The :ref:`nRF91 modem tracing with RAM backend snippet <nrf91_modem_trace_ram_snippet>` to enable modem tracing using the RAM trace backend.

Developing with nRF70 Series
============================

* The :ref:`ug_nrf70_features_hostap` section to the :ref:`ug_nrf70_features` page.

Developing with nRF54L Series
=============================

* Added:

  * :ref:`nRF54l_snippets` to emulate these targets on an nRF54L15 DK.
    These are used only for development purposes.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54l_cryptography` page that provides more information about the cryptographic peripherals of the nRF54L Series devices, programming model for referencing keys, and configuration.
  * A page on :ref:`memory_storage` system.

>   * The :ref:`vpr_flpr_nrf54l` and :ref:`building_nrf54l` pages.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`vpr_flpr_nrf54l` and :ref:`building_nrf54l` pages.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota` page, describing FOTA update process and testing steps.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54l_developing_provision_kmu` page, including instructions on generating keys and provisioning them to the board.
```

  * Integrated :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_reportq` in :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward`.
    The HID report queue utility is used to locally enqueue reports at the source to prevent HID report drops.
    The ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_HID_FORWARD_MAX_ENQUEUED_REPORTS`` Kconfig option was removed, use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_HID_REPORTQ_MAX_ENQUEUED_REPORTS <config_desktop_app_options>` instead.

* Deprecated the :ref:`nrf_desktop_hfclk_lock`.
  Use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_LOW_LATENCY_LOCK <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option instead.
  Setting the peripheral latency Bluetooth LE connection parameter to ``0`` for a connection that uses Low Latency Packet Mode connection interval on peripheral leads to keeping the high frequency clock enabled.
  That mitigates the extra HID report latency caused by the high frequency clock startup delay.

* Removed support for the nRF54L15 PDK revision v0.2.x.

Serial LTE modem
----------------

* Added:

  * DTLS support for the ``#XUDPSVR`` and ``#XSSOCKET`` (UDP server sockets) AT commands when the :file:`overlay-native_tls.conf` configuration file is used.

>   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SLM_PPP_FALLBACK_MTU` Kconfig option that is used to control the MTU used by PPP when the cellular link MTU is not returned by the modem in response to the ``AT+CGCONTRDP=0`` AT command.

Author: As discussed, this will be added to the Jira.

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` in the low-power snippet.
  * Added experimental support for :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>` on the nRF54L15 SoC.

Zigbee samples
--------------

* :ref:`zigbee_light_switch_sample` sample:

  * Added the option to configure transmission power.
  * Fixed the FOTA configuration for the nRF5340 DK.

Wi-Fi samples
-------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`wifi_offloaded_raw_tx_packet_sample` sample that demonstrates offloaded raw transmit beaconing, allowing the beaconing to be done autonomously by nRF7002 instead of being triggered by the host.
    This allows using simpler hosts as it requires less processing from the host side.

* :ref:`wifi_radio_test` sample:

  * Added capture timeout as a parameter for packet capture.
  * Expanded the scope of ``wifi_radio_test show_config`` subcommand and rectified the behavior of ``wifi_radio_test tx_pkt_preamble`` subcommand.

* :ref:`softap_wifi_provision_sample` sample:

  * Increased the value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOFTAP_WIFI_PROVISION_THREAD_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option to 8192 bytes to avoid stack overflow.

* :ref:`wifi_shell_sample` sample:

>   * Added:
> 
>    * Support for running the full stack on the Thingy:91 X.
>      This is a special configuration that uses the nRF5340 as the host chip instead of the nRF9151.
>    * Overlay to support Enterprise mode.

Reviewer 21: ```suggestion
  * Added:

    * Support for running the full stack on the Thingy:91 X.
      This is a special configuration that uses the nRF5340 as the host chip instead of the nRF9151.
    * Overlay to support Enterprise mode.
```

      * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_COUNT` to control whether a retry would be performed and the number of consecutive date-time update retries.
      * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_INTERVAL_SECONDS` to control how quickly date-time update retries occur.

  * Fixed a bug that caused date-time updates to not be rescheduled under certain circumstances.

* :ref:`lib_ram_pwrdn` library:

  * Added support for the nRF54L15 SoC.

* :ref:`dult_readme` library:

  * Added DULT motion detector feature.
    You can enable this feature using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR` Kconfig option.

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security_readme` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_SP800_108_COUNTER_CMAC` Kconfig option to key derivation function configurations in :ref:`nrf_security_driver_config`.
    The Kconfig option enables support for the derivation function SP 800-108r1 CMAC in counter mode, which is supported by the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cracen`.

* :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library:

  * Added support for Zephyr Memory Storage (ZMS), as an alternative to the NVS file system.

> * :ref:`nrf_security` library:

Reviewer 10: Please combine this with the first entry under this section.

  * Storing the Device Attestation Certificates private key in the Key Management Unit (KMU) to be enabled for nRF54L Series devices.
    See :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu` for more information.

Matter fork
+++++++++++

The Matter fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-connectedhomeip``) contains all commits from the upstream Matter repository up to, and including, the ``v1.3.0.0`` tag.

Thread
------

* Added the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` and described how to use it.
* Updated the default Trusted Storage AEAD key to Hardware Unique Key (HUK) for supported nRF54L Series devices.

Zigbee
------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` to v3.11.5.0 and platform v5.1.6 (``v3.11.5.0+5.1.6``).
    They contain a fix for the ZBOSS traces.
    For details, see :ref:`zboss_changelog`.
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.2.4.

* Fixed the :file:`zb_add_ota_header.py` script not being able to handle an ``APPLICATION_VERSION_STRING`` which includes a tweak, such as ``1.0.0+3``.

Wi-Fi
-----

> * Added:
> 
>    * The :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_offloaded_raw_tx` feature.
>    * Support for :ref:`WPA2-EAP-TLS <ug_nrf70_wifi_advanced_security_modes>` enterprise security mode.
>    * Support for :ref:`Platform Security Architecture (PSA) crypto APIs <ug_nrf70_developing_wifi_psa_support>` for WPA2™ security profiles.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Added:

  * The :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_offloaded_raw_tx` feature.
  * Support for :ref:`WPA2-EAP-TLS <ug_nrf70_wifi_advanced_security_modes>` enterprise security mode.
  * Support for :ref:`Platform Security Architecture (PSA) crypto APIs <ug_nrf70_developing_wifi_psa_support>` for WPA2™ security profiles.
```

  * :ref:`nrf_desktop_dvfs` that can be used on the nRF54H20 SoC.
    The module is responsible for switching the frequency and voltage according to the application's needs.
    The module ensures that lowest DVFS frequency and voltage are used unless computing-intensive operation requests higher frequency and voltage.
    The module listens to Event Manager events and applies DVFS frequency according to the application state.
  * Handling of :c:struct:`hid_report_subscriber_event` to :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward`.
    Handling the :c:struct:`hid_report_subscriber_event` allows to take into account the maximum number of reports with different IDs, which can be processed by the subscriber (:c:member:`hid_report_subscriber_event.report_max`).
  * :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_reportq`, which is integrated in :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward`.
    The utility can be used by an application module to simplify enqueuing HID input reports received from connected HID peripherals before providing them to HID subscriber.
    The HID report queue utility is used to locally enqueue reports at the source to prevent HID report drops.

>     The ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_HID_FORWARD_MAX_ENQUEUED_REPORTS`` Kconfig option was removed, use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_HID_REPORTQ_MAX_ENQUEUED_REPORTS <config_desktop_app_options>` instead.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    The ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_HID_FORWARD_MAX_ENQUEUED_REPORTS`` Kconfig option was removed, use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_HID_REPORTQ_MAX_ENQUEUED_REPORTS <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option instead.
```

  * The ``#XCARRIERCFG="bootstrap_smartcard"`` AT command.

Thingy:53: Matter weather station
---------------------------------

* Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_ZAP_FILES_PATH` Kconfig option, which specifies ZAP files location for the application.
  By default, the option points to the :file:`src/default_zap` directory and can be changed to any path relative to application's location that contains the ZAP file and :file:`zap-generated` directory.

Samples
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`sample <samples>`.

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`ble_radio_notification_conn_cb` sample demonstrating how to use the :ref:`ug_radio_notification_conn_cb` feature.
  * The :ref:`bluetooth_conn_time_synchronization` sample demonstrating microsecond-accurate synchronization of connections that are happening over Bluetooth Low Energy Asynchronous Connection-oriented Logical transport (ACL).
  * The :ref:`ble_subrating` sample that showcases the effect of the LE Connection Subrating feature on the duty cycle of a connection.

>   * The :ref:`nrf_auraconfig` sample that implements the :ref:`BIS gateway mode <nrf53_audio_app_overview>` and can act as an `Auracast <Auracast™_>`_ broadcaster if you are using a preset compatible with Auracast.

Reviewer 10: I don't think we require the ™ symbol here since we have it already at the begining. 
 ```suggestion
   * The :ref:`nrf_auraconfig` sample that implements the :ref:`BIS gateway mode <nrf53_audio_app_overview>` and can act as an `Auracast <Auracast_>`_ broadcaster if you are using a preset compatible with Auracast.
```

Author: Auracast™  is the link in the link.txt ™ symbol won't render here.

    * Logging of the `reset reason code <nRF9160 RESETREAS_>`_.

  * Updated:

    * Credentials check to also see if AWS root CA cert is likely present.
    * Credentials check failure to disable network if not using the provisioning service.

  * Removed redundant logging that is now done by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_rest_cell_pos_sample` sample:

  * Removed redundant logging that is now done by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

* :ref:`smp_svr` sample:

  * Added sysbuild configuration files.

Cryptography samples
--------------------

* Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` (board target ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns``), replacing the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` (board target ``nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns``).

Debug samples
-------------

* :ref:`memfault_sample` sample:

  * Increased the value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MAIN_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option to 8192 bytes to avoid stack overflow.

DECT NR+ samples
----------------

* Added the :ref:`dect_shell_application` sample.

Edge Impulse samples
--------------------

> * Added support for the :ref:zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15 board in the following samples:

Reviewer 10: Ref link not correct: 
```suggestion
* Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` board in the following samples:
```

* Updated the immutable bootloader to now be protected using the :ref:`fprotect_readme` library on the nRF54L15 SoC (``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_FPROTECT_ALLOW_COMBINED_REGIONS`` and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT_ALLOW_COMBINED_REGIONS` Kconfig option).

* Fixed:

  * An issue with wrong network core address checking in MCUboot for nRF5340 network core firmware updates.
  * An issue with MCUboot updates in MCUboot when a swap mode was selected, which could lead to possible data corruption by implementing additional NSIB-specific (overwrite-only) upgrade mode for sysbuild.
  * Multiple issues with checking firmware update slot selection in MCUboot for sysbuild.
  * An issue with MCUboot cleanup unused slots feature, which could lead to possible empty firmware update of the main image and bricking the device for sysbuild.

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each nRF Connect SDK release.

> The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``ea02b93eea35afef32ebb31f49f8e79932e7deee``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

Reviewer 18: This SHA seems wrong, looks like a copy-paste from the previous release. The actual merge-base for Zephyr is now https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/commit/beb733919d8d64a778a11bd5e7d5cbe5ae27b8ee, need to update this

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

>    git log --oneline ea02b93eea ^23cf38934c

Reviewer 18: This should be:
```suggestion
   git log --oneline beb733919d ^ea02b93eea
```

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

>    git log --oneline manifest-rev ^ea02b93eea

Reviewer 18: And this:
```suggestion
   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^beb733919d
```

> The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``ea02b93eea`` of Zephyr.

Reviewer 18: Respectively:
```suggestion
The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``beb733919d`` of Zephyr.
```

  * The Low Latency Packet Mode (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_USE_LLPM`) cannot be enabled on nRF53 SoC Series (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF53X`).
    The nRF53 SoC Series does not support LLPM.

Debug libraries
---------------

* :ref:`mod_memfault` library:

  * Added location metrics, including GNSS, cellular, and Wi-Fi specific metrics.
    The metrics are enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_LOCATION_METRICS` Kconfig option.

DFU libraries
-------------

* Added the :ref:`subsys_suit` library that provides functionality to a local domain for managing the update based on the SUIT manifest.

* :ref:`lib_dfu_target` library:

  * Added SUIT cache processing to the DFU Target SUIT library, as described in the :ref:`lib_dfu_target_suit_style_update` section.
  * Updated the DFU Target SUIT implementation to the newest version of the SUIT.

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security` library:

  * Removed the Kconfig options ``CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_CFB`` and ``CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_OFB`` since the Cipher Feedback (CFB) mode and the Output Feedback (OFB) mode are not tested in the test framework.

Modem libraries
---------------

* Added:

>   * The :ref:`at_parser_readme` library.
>     The :ref:`at_parser_readme` is a library that parses AT command responses, notifications, and events.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`at_parser_readme` library that parses AT command responses, notifications, and events.
```

    Compared to the deprecated :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library, it does not allocate memory dynamically and has a smaller footprint.
    For more information on how to transition from the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library to the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library, see the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8_recommended>`.

>   * The :ref:`lib_uicc_lwm2m` library.
>     This library reads the LwM2M bootstrap configuration from SIM.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`lib_uicc_lwm2m` library that reads the LwM2M bootstrap configuration from SIM.
```

  * Deprecated:

    * The :c:macro:`LTE_LC_ON_CFUN` macro.
      Use the :c:macro:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_CFUN` macro instead.
    * The :c:func:`lte_lc_factory_reset` function.
      Use the ``AT%XFACTORYRESET`` AT command instead.
      Refer to the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>` for more details.
    * The :c:enum:`lte_lc_factory_reset_type` type.
    * The :c:func:`lte_lc_reduced_mobility_get` and :c:func:`lte_lc_reduced_mobility_set` functions.
      Refer to the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>` for more details.
    * The :c:enum:`lte_lc_reduced_mobility_mode` type.
      Refer to the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>` for more details.

  * Removed:

    * The ``lte_lc_init`` function.
      All instances of this function can be removed without any additional actions.
    * The ``lte_lc_deinit`` function.
      Use the :c:func:`lte_lc_power_off` function instead.
    * The ``lte_lc_init_and_connect`` function.
      Use the :c:func:`lte_lc_connect` function instead.
    * The ``lte_lc_init_and_connect_async`` function.
      Use the :c:func:`lte_lc_connect_async` function instead.
    * The ``CONFIG_LTE_NETWORK_USE_FALLBACK`` Kconfig option.

>       Use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_NETWORK_MODE_LTE_M_NBIOT` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_NETWORK_MODE_LTE_M_NBIOT_GPS` Kconfig option instead.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
      Use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_NETWORK_MODE_LTE_M_NBIOT` Kconfig option or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_NETWORK_MODE_LTE_M_NBIOT_GPS` Kconfig option instead.
```

Author: We follow the above format as well - https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/releases_and_maturity/releases/release-notes-2.6.0.html#modem_libraries. We could keep it as is to avoid mentioning Kconfig option twice.

      In addition, you can control the priority between LTE-M and NB-IoT using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_MODE_PREFERENCE` Kconfig option.

* :ref:`lib_location` library:

  * Fixed:

>     * A bug causing the GNSS obstructed visibility detection to sometimes count only part of the tracked satellites.
>     * A bug causing the GNSS obstructed visibility detection to be sometimes performed twice.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    * An issue causing the GNSS obstructed visibility detection to sometimes count only part of the tracked satellites.
    * An issue causing the GNSS obstructed visibility detection to be sometimes performed twice.
```

Author: discussed offline and decided to keep it as is.

  * Removed the unused :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.

* :ref:`lib_zzhc`:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.

* :ref:`modem_info_readme` library:

  * Updated:

    * To use the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.
    * The formulas of RSRP and RSRQ values in :c:macro:`RSRP_IDX_TO_DBM` and :c:macro:`RSRQ_IDX_TO_DB` based on AT command reference guide updates.
      The formulas are now aligned with the modem implementation that has not changed.

  * Fixed a potential issue with scanf in the :c:func:`modem_info_get_current_band` function, which could lead to memory corruption.

  * Removed ``RSRP_OFFSET_VAL``, ``RSRQ_OFFSET_VAL`` and ``RSRQ_SCALE_VAL`` from the API.
    Clients should use the :c:macro:`RSRP_IDX_TO_DBM` and the :c:macro:`RSRQ_IDX_TO_DB` macros.

* :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_readme`:

>   * Added:
> 
> 	* Support for socket option ``SO_IPV6_DELAYED_ADDR_REFRESH``.
> 	* A log warning suggesting a SIM card to be installed if a UICC error is detected by the modem in the :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_lte_net_if`.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
  * Added:

    * Support for socket option ``SO_IPV6_DELAYED_ADDR_REFRESH``.
    * A log warning suggesting a SIM card to be installed if a UICC error is detected by the modem in the :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_lte_net_if`.
```

  * Updated:

    * The RTT trace backend to allocate the RTT channel at boot, instead of when the modem is activated.
    * The flash trace backend to solve concurrency issues when reading traces while writing, and when reinitializing the application (warm start).
    * The :ref:`modem_trace_module` to let the trace thread sleep when the modem trace level is set to :c:enumerator:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_LEVEL_OFF` using the :c:func:`nrf_modem_lib_trace_level_set` function, and the trace backend returns ``-ENOSPC``.
      The trace thread wakes up when another trace level is set.
    * The RTT trace backend to return ``-ENOSPC`` when the RTT buffer is full.
      This allows the trace thread to sleep to save power.
    * The nRF91 socket offload layer is renamed from ``nrf91_sockets`` to ``nrf9x_sockets`` to reflect that the offload layer is not exclusive to the nRF91 Series SiPs.

>   * Fixed a bug causing the cell network to be treated as offline if IPv4 is not assigned in the :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_lte_net_if`.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
  * Fixed an issue causing the cell network to be treated as offline if IPv4 is not assigned in the :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_lte_net_if`.
```

      Instead, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_IPV4` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_IPV6` Kconfig options to customize which IP versions the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library uses.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_STATIC_IPV4` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_STATIC_IPV4_ADDR` Kconfig options.
      Support for statically configured nRF Cloud IP Addresses will soon be removed.
      Leave :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_STATIC_IPV4` disabled to instead use automatic DNS lookup.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library:

  * Added:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_DISCONNECT_ON_FAILED_REQUEST` Kconfig option to disconnect the CoAP client on a failed request.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_JWT_SEC_TAG` Kconfig option to allow for a separate sec tag to be used for nRF Cloud CoAP JWT signing.

  * Updated:

    * To use a shorter resource string for the ``d2c/bulk`` resource.
    * The function :c:func:`nrf_cloud_coap_shadow_get` to return ``-E2BIG`` if the received shadow data was truncated because the provided buffer was not big enough.

>     * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_DOWNLOADS` Kconfig option to be enabled by default if either the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_FOTA_POLL` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS` Kconfig option is enabled.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_DOWNLOADS` Kconfig option to be enabled by default if either the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_FOTA_POLL` Kconfig option the or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS` Kconfig option is enabled.
```

  * Fixed:

    * A hard fault that occurred when encoding AGNSS request data and the ``net_info`` field of the :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_rest_agnss_request` structure is NULL.

>     * An issue where certain CoAP functions could return zero, indicating success, even though there was an error.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    * An issue where certain CoAP functions would return zero, indicating success, even though there was an error.
```

* :ref:`lib_mqtt_helper` library:

  * Added the function :c:func:`mqtt_helper_msg_id_get` to get valid message IDs for MQTT messages.
  * Updated the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MQTT_HELPER_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option to depend on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TLS_CREDENTIALS` instead of specific boards.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_provisioning` library:

  * Added support for the ``SO_KEEPOPEN`` socket option to keep the socket open even during PDN disconnect and reconnect.
  * Updated the check interval logging to use INF to improve customer experience.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_alert` library:

  * Updated to use INF log level when cloud side changes the alert enable flag.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Added an experimental serialization of NFC tag 2 and tag 4 APIs.
* Fixed a potential issue with handling data pointers in the function ``ring_buf_get_data()`` in the :file:`platform_internal_thread` file.

nRF RPC libraries
-----------------

* Added:

  * An experimental serialization of Openthread APIs.
  * The logging backend that sends logs through nRF RPC events.

> * Updated the internal Bluetooth serialization API and Bluetooth callback proxy API to become part of the public NRF RPC API.

Reviewer 10: Link to the NRF RPC API.

Other libraries
---------------

* Added the :ref:`nrf_compression` library with support for the LZMA decompression.

* :ref:`lib_date_time` library:

  * Added:

    * A retry feature that reattempts failed date-time updates up to a certain number of consecutive times.

>     * The Kconfig options :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_COUNT` to control whether and how many consecutive date-time update retries may be performed, and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_INTERVAL_SECONDS` to control how quickly date-time update retries occur.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    * The following Kconfig options:
    
       * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_COUNT` to control whether a retry would be performed and the number of consecutive date-time update retries.
       * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DATE_TIME_RETRY_INTERVAL_SECONDS` to control how quickly date-time update retries occur.
```

>   * Fixed a bug that caused date-time updates to not be rescheduled under certain circumstances.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
  * Fixed an issue that caused date-time updates to not be rescheduled under certain circumstances.
```

* :ref:`lib_ram_pwrdn` library:

  * Added support for the nRF54L15 SoC.

* :ref:`dult_readme` library:

  * Added DULT motion detector feature.
    You can enable this feature using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR` Kconfig option.

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security_readme` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_SP800_108_COUNTER_CMAC` Kconfig option to key derivation function configurations in :ref:`nrf_security_driver_config`.

>     The Kconfig option enables support for the derivation function SP 800-108r1 CMAC in counter mode, which is supported by the nrf_cracen driver.

Reviewer 10: Link to https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-18192/nrf/libraries/security/nrf_security/doc/drivers.html#cracen-driver instead of nrf_cracen?

* :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library:

  * Added support for Zephyr Memory Storage (ZMS), as an alternative to the NVS file system.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script` script:

  * Added semantic version support for devices that use the :ref:`SUIT DFU <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>`.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``a4eda30f5b0cfd0cf15512be9dcd559239dbfc91``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added:

  * :ref:`Compressed firmware update support <mcuboot_image_compression>`.
  * Support for SHA-512.
  * Support for ED25519 'PURE' signature.

>     See the :kconfig:option:CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_PURE Kconfig option in MCUboot for details.

Reviewer 10: Format for the Kconfig is wrong. But I don't  think we can link anyway. Since it cannot be linked, may be we should rephrase as  (Related Kconfig - ``CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_PURE``)

  * Integration of PSA crypto API as cryptographic backend for integration with cryptographic acceleration on the nRF54L15 SoC.
    See the :kconfig:option:CONFIG_BOOT_USE_PSA_CRYPTO Kconfig option in MCUboot for details.
  * Support for signature verification using hardware cryptography (Cracken) on the nRF54L15 SoC.
    This is supported either for the ED25519 'PURE' signature or the ED25519 signature.
  * Support for storing signature verification keys in hardware KMU on the nRF54L15 SoC.
    See Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_USING_KMU` in MCUboot for details.
  * Integration of nRF54L15 SoC's HW cryptography, KMU sysbuild configuration, and signing script for building and signing the application in a project.
    See ``SB_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_ED25519`` , ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_SIGNATURE_USING_KMU``, and ``SB_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_PURE`` Kconfig options for details.

* Updated the immutable bootloader to now be protected using the :ref:`fprotect_readme` library on the nRF54L15 SoC.

>   See the ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_FPROTECT_ALLOW_COMBINED_REGIONS`` and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT_ALLOW_COMBINED_REGIONS` Kconfig option in MCUboot for details.

Reviewer 10: (Related Kconfigs - ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_FPROTECT_ALLOW_COMBINED_REGIONS`` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT_ALLOW_COMBINED_REGIONS`)

Matter fork
+++++++++++

The Matter fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-connectedhomeip``) contains all commits from the upstream Matter repository up to, and including, the ``v1.3.0.0`` tag.

Thread
------

* Added the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` and described how to use it.
* Updated the default Trusted Storage AEAD key to Hardware Unique Key (HUK) for supported nRF54L Series devices.

Zigbee
------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` to v3.11.5.0 and platform v5.1.6 (``v3.11.5.0+5.1.6``).
    They contain a fix for the ZBOSS traces.
    For details, see :ref:`zboss_changelog`.
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.2.4.

* Fixed the :file:`zb_add_ota_header.py` script not being able to handle an ``APPLICATION_VERSION_STRING`` which includes a tweak, such as ``1.0.0+3``.

Wi-Fi
-----

* Added:

   * The :ref:`ug_nrf70_developing_offloaded_raw_tx` feature.
   * Support for :ref:`WPA2-EAP-TLS <ug_nrf70_wifi_advanced_security_modes>` enterprise security mode.
   * Support for :ref:`Platform Security Architecture (PSA) crypto APIs <ug_nrf70_developing_wifi_psa_support>` for WPA2™ security profiles.

> * Updated:
> 
>    * The WPA supplicant is now switched to Zephyr upstream's fork instead of |NCS|.
>    * The WPA supplicant now uses ``kernel heap`` instead of ``application (libc) heap``.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Updated:

  * The WPA supplicant is now switched to Zephyr upstream's fork instead of |NCS|.
  * The WPA supplicant now uses ``kernel heap`` instead of ``application (libc) heap``.
```

  * The :ref:`bluetooth_conn_time_synchronization` sample demonstrating microsecond-accurate synchronization of connections that are happening over Bluetooth Low Energy Asynchronous Connection-oriented Logical transport (ACL).
  * The :ref:`ble_subrating` sample that showcases the effect of the LE Connection Subrating feature on the duty cycle of a connection.
  * The :ref:`nrf_auraconfig` sample that implements the :ref:`BIS gateway mode <nrf53_audio_app_overview>` and can act as an `Auracast <Auracast™_>`_ broadcaster if you are using a preset compatible with Auracast.
  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15` board in the following samples:

    * :ref:`central_bas`
    * :ref:`bluetooth_central_hr_coded`
    * :ref:`multiple_adv_sets`
    * :ref:`peripheral_bms`
    * :ref:`peripheral_cgms`
    * :ref:`peripheral_cts_client`
    * :ref:`peripheral_gatt_dm`
    * :ref:`peripheral_hr_coded`
    * :ref:`peripheral_mds`
    * :ref:`peripheral_nfc_pairing`
    * :ref:`power_profiling`
    * :ref:`peripheral_rscs`
    * :ref:`shell_bt_nus`
    * :ref:`ble_throughput`
    * :ref:`bluetooth_central_dfu_smp`
    * :ref:`peripheral_status`

> * :ref:`bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization`:

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* :ref:`bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization` sample:
```

Common Application Framework
----------------------------

* :ref:`caf_ble_state`:

  * The Low Latency Packet Mode (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_USE_LLPM`) cannot be enabled on nRF53 SoC Series (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF53X`).
    The nRF53 SoC Series does not support LLPM.

Debug libraries
---------------

* :ref:`mod_memfault` library:

  * Added location metrics, including GNSS, cellular, and Wi-Fi specific metrics.
    The metrics are enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_LOCATION_METRICS` Kconfig option.

DFU libraries
-------------

* Added the :ref:`subsys_suit` library that provides functionality to a local domain for managing the update based on the SUIT manifest.

* :ref:`lib_dfu_target` library:

  * Added SUIT cache processing to the DFU Target SUIT library, as described in the :ref:`lib_dfu_target_suit_style_update` section.
  * Updated the DFU Target SUIT implementation to the newest version of the SUIT.

> Security libraries

Reviewer 10: There are two sections for these libraries.
